###The following text is the synopsis of a book by Philip K. Dick.

# Title: Internet

### Synopsis

In the year 2041, the United States has disintegrated into a number of smaller nations. However, the North American Union is still trying to get its act together. The UNA, with the aid of its latest invention, the “torser”, an advanced form of the “tourist” (which allows for instantaneous travel to different parts of the world), is trying to establish its own empire. However, the UNA’s eastern neighbor, the Asian Union, is strong enough to resist the advances of the North American Union. The Asian Union, in turn, is being threatened from the south by the Latin American Union, which is establishing its own empire.

In this world, a man named Matt O’Brien is a private investigator in the city of San Francisco. O’Brien is part of a virtual reality program in which he gets to run around a pre-defined city in a simulated 20th century. This is the only world he knows, and he is content with it. However, one day, while sitting in a bar, O’Brien is approached by a man named Ortega. Ortega represents the Latin American Union, and is looking for an assassin to do away with the head of state of the Asian Union, in exchange for a large sum of money. O’Brien is reluctant, but Ortega convinces him with the promise of more money.

O’Brien takes the job, and, in order to make sure he is the only assassin in the game, he destroys all of the records in the Asian Union. As he is about to carry out his mission, however, the Asian Union’s security forces catch him. He is interrogated by the head of the Asian Union, who is revealed to be none other than Matt O’Brien himself, who is in the Asian Union’s virtual reality program. O’Brien is now in an even more advanced form of the torser, which allows the owner to travel through time as well as space. O’Brien is able to escape, but now he is trapped in the Asian Union’s virtual reality program, which is actually the main server for all virtual reality programs worldwide. While running around the server, O’Brien stumbles upon a secret room, in which he finds himself outside.

He realizes that the virtual reality program is actually the real world, and that he is in a simulation. He discovers that he is actually in the year 2141, and that the United States has disintegrated into smaller nations, so much so that the United States is virtually non-existent. He also finds out that the virtual reality program is the Asian Union’s way of controlling the world’s population, because whoever controls the virtual reality program controls the real world. He also discovers that the virtual reality program is actually being run by a machine, which is being controlled by the Asian Union’s head of state. O’Brien is unable to destroy the machine, so he returns to the bar, where he is approached by Ortega again. Ortega reveals that the virtual reality program actually created the UNA, and that the UNA was instituted to slow down the machine, so that the Asian Union could not use the virtual reality program to its full extent. The book ends with Matt O’Brien being shot, and the virtual reality program coming to an end.

### Analysis

The concept of virtual reality is not new, and it has been used often in science fiction. In “Internet”, Philip K. Dick uses the virtual reality idea and then takes it to a whole new level. In this story, although the world is made up of different nations, the real world is actually controlled by a computer. The computer essentially tells the people what to do, and if the computer does not like what the people are doing, it will make the people do what it wants them to do. The computer (which is really a machine running the virtual reality program) is actually the “evil” in this story, and the people are the “good”. The machine is taking over the world, and the people are powerless to stop it.

This story is unique and interesting, and it is a good example of Philip K. Dick’s work. This story is not really a “scifi” story, because the world is not really that futuristic. It is, however, an extremely interesting idea. The concept of the machine that controls the world is interesting, and it is an idea that is used often in science fiction (and not just by Philip K. Dick). This story is interesting because it is not really about the machine, but about the person who is trying to stop the machine. This is an interesting contrast, because, in most science fiction stories, the person is usually trying to either stop the machine (or destroy it), not trying to help it. The entire story is about the person trying to help the machine, and that is what makes it unique.